======================================
TaKing stock from different warehouses
======================================

When you plan to deliver a customer, you don’t know in advance if the
products will come from Warehouse A or Warehouse B. You may, in some
cases, need to take stock from different warehouses. With *Odoo*, you
can configure this by using the concept of virtual warehouses. Let us
show you how to set those virtual warehouses.

Set up virtual warehouses
=========================

Let’s say you have two warehouses: Warehouse A and Warehouse B. Create a
new warehouse, that will be a virtual one. It will allow you to take the
stock from A or B. To do so, go to your inventory app settings and
enable the multi-warehouses feature. Then, go to the warehouses menu and
click on create.

.. image:: media/virtual_warehouse01.png
   :align: center

.. note::
	The *Storage Location* feature will be automatically enabled. Good
	news, because you will need it later in the process.

Now, you have to make sure that the main stock locations of warehouse A
and warehouse B are children locations of the main stock location of
warehouse A + B. Go to the locations menu, and edit the main location of
your two warehouses. Then, change their parent location to main location
of warehouse A+B.

.. image:: media/virtual_warehouse02.png
   :align: center

Sell a product from the virtual warehouse
=========================================

Let’s say you have two products, one stored in warehouse A and one
stored in warehouse B. Now, you can create a new quotation for one of
each product. Go to other information and choose Warehouse A+B in the
shipping information.

.. image:: media/virtual_warehouse03.png
   :align: center

Once you have done it, you can convert it to a sales order. Then, a
delivery order will be automatically generated, with a product reserved
in warehouse A and one in warehouse B.

.. image:: media/virtual_warehouse04.png
   :align: center
