===============
Referral points
===============

The *Referrals* application allows employees to earn points that are then exchanged for
:doc:`rewards <rewards>`.

Current referral points can be viewed on the main *Referrals* app dashboard, which appears when the
application is opened, after the :ref:`onboarding <referrals/onboarding>` slides have been viewed or
skipped.

At the top, a summary of the user's current points is displayed. The left side of the summary
displays the :guilabel:`Total` points earned, and the right side displays the points that are
available :guilabel:`To Spend`.

To view the various referral stages, and their respective earned points, click one of the referral
statuses beneath the avatar. The options are: :guilabel:`Referrals`, :guilabel:`Ongoing`, and
:guilabel:`Successful`.

The current number of referrals that are still active in the recruitment pipeline, but have not yet
been hired or refused, appear above :guilabel:`Ongoing`. The number of referrals that have been
hired, appears above :guilabel:`Successful`. The total number of referrals, both the ongoing and
successful referrals combined, appears above :guilabel:`Referrals`.

My referrals
============

To see all the referrals, both ongoing and successful, click :guilabel:`Referrals`. The
:guilabel:`My Referral` screen page displays all referrals, with each individual referral housed in
its own referral card.

A successful referral displays a white :icon:`fa-check` :guilabel:`Hired` badge in the top-right
corner of the card, along with a vertical green stripe on the left-side of the card. Referrals that
are in process have a purple :guilabel:`In Progress` badge in the top-right corner.

Each referral card lists the name of the applicant, the subject/application title as it appears on
the applicant card in the *Recruitment* app, the name of the job position, the person responsible
for filling the role (i.e. the recruiter), and the points earned.

For referrals that have been hired, the selected avatar also appears on the card.

.. image:: points/referrals.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Two referral cards, one hired and one in-progress.

Points
------

The points that can be earned for a referral are the same across all job positions. Each stage of
the recruitment process has corresponding points assigned to it. The stages listed correspond to the
stages configured in the *Recruitment* application.

On each individual referral card, beneath the points earned, is a progress bar that displays how
many points have been earned out of the total possible points that can be earned, if the applicant
is hired.

Beneath the bar chart is a list of the various recruitment stages, and the points earned when the
referral moves to that stage. If a stage has been achieved, and the points have been earned, a green
:icon:`fa-check` :guilabel:`(checkmark)` appears next to the stage.

.. note::
   The preconfigured point structure for referrals is as follows:

   - :guilabel:`Initial Qualification`: 1 point
   - :guilabel:`First Interview`: 20 points
   - :guilabel:`Second Interview`: 9 points
   - :guilabel:`Contract Proposal`: 5 points
   - :guilabel:`Contract Signed`: 50 points

   The default total points earned for a referral that is hired is 85 points. Modifications of the
   points earned for each stage are made in the *Recruitment* application. Refer to the
   :ref:`Recruitment <recruitment/modify-stages>` documentation to modify the points for each stage.
