===================
Quotation templates
===================

Reusable quotation templates can be made in Odoo's **Sales** app for common products or services.

By using these templates, quotations can be tailored and sent to customers at a quicker pace,
without having to create new quotations from scratch every time a sales negotiation occurs.

.. _sales/send_quotations/templates:

Configuration
=============

To use quotation templates, begin by activating the setting in :menuselection:`Sales app -->
Configuration --> Settings`, and scroll to the :guilabel:`Quotations &_Orders` heading.

Under the heading, tick the :guilabel:`Quotation Templates` checkbox. Doing so reveals a new
:guilabel:`Default Template` field, in which a default quotation template can be chosen from the
drop-down menu.

.. image:: quote_template/quotations-templates-setting.png
   :alt: How to enable quotation templates on Odoo Sales.

Upon activating the :guilabel:`Quotation Template` feature, an internal :icon:`fa-arrow-right`
:guilabel:`Quotation Templates` link appears beneath the :guilabel:`Default Template` field.

Clicking this link reveals the :guilabel:`Quotation Templates` page, from which templates can be
created, viewed, and edited.

Before leaving the :guilabel:`Settings` page, do not forget to click the :guilabel:`Save` button to
save all changes made during the session.

.. _sales/send_quotations/create_templates:

Create quotation templates
==========================

To create a quotation template, click the :guilabel:`Quotation Templates` link on the
:guilabel:`Settings` page once :guilabel:`Quotation templates` are enabled, or navigate to
:menuselection:`Sales app --> Configuration --> Quotation Templates`. Both options reveal the
:guilabel:`Quotation Templates` page, where quotation templates can be created, viewed, and edited.

.. image:: quote_template/quotation-templates-page.png
   :alt: Quotation templates page in the Odoo Sales application.

To create a new quotation template, click the :guilabel:`New` button, located in the upper-left
corner. Doing so reveals a blank quotation template form that can be customized.

.. image:: quote_template/blank-quotation-form.png
   :alt: Create a new quotation template on Odoo Sales.

Start by entering a name for the template in the :guilabel:`Quotation Template` field.

Then, in the :guilabel:`Quotation Validity` field, designate how many days the quotation template
will remain valid for, or leave the field on the default `0` to keep the template valid
indefinitely.

Next, in the :guilabel:`Confirmation Mail` field, click the blank drop-down menu to select a
preconfigured email template to be sent to customers upon confirmation of an order.

.. tip::
   To create a new email template directly from the :guilabel:`Confirmation Mail` field, start
   typing the name of the new email template in the field, and select either: :guilabel:`Create` or
   :guilabel:`Create and edit...` from the drop-down menu that appears.

   Selecting :guilabel:`Create` creates the email template, which can be edited later.

   Selecting :guilabel:`Create and edit...` creates the email template, and a :guilabel:`Create
   Confirmation Mail` pop-up window appears, in which the email template can be customized and
   configured immediately.

   .. image:: quote_template/create-confirmation-mail-popup.png
      :alt: Create confirmation mail pop-up window from the quotation template form in Odoo Sales.

   When all modifications are complete, click :guilabel:`Save & Close` to save the email template
   and return to the quotation form.

If working in a multi-company environment, use the :guilabel:`Company` field to designate to which
company this quotation template applies.

If a journal is set in the :guilabel:`Invoicing Journal` field, all sales orders with this template
will invoice in that specified journal. If no journal is set in this field, the sales journal with
the lowest sequence is used.

If the :guilabel:`Online Signature` and/or :guilabel:`Online Payment` features are activated in the
:guilabel:`Settings` (:menuselection:`Sales app --> Configuration --> Settings`), those options are
available on quotation template forms.

Check the box beside :guilabel:`Online Signature` to request an online signature from the customer
to confirm an order.

Check the box beside :guilabel:`Online Payment` to request an online payment from the customer to
confirm an order. When :guilabel:`Online Payment` is checked, a new percentage field appears, in
which a specific percentage of payment can be entered.

Both options, :guilabel:`Online Signature` and :guilabel:`Online Payment` can be enabled
simultaneously, in which case the customer must provide **both** a signature **and** a payment to
confirm an order.

In the :guilabel:`Recurring Plan` field, choose from a variety of pre-configured amounts of time
(e.g. :guilabel:`Monthly`, :guilabel:`Quarterly`, etc.) to designate how often this quotation
template should occur.

.. note::
   The :guilabel:`Recurring Plan` field **only** applies to subscription plans. For more
   information, check out the documentation on :doc:`../../subscriptions/plans`.

Lines tab
---------

In the :guilabel:`Lines` tab, products can be added to the quotation template by clicking
:guilabel:`Add a product`, organized by clicking :guilabel:`Add a section` (and dragging/dropping
section headers), and further explained with discretionary information (such as warranty details,
terms, etc.) by clicking :guilabel:`Add a note`.

To add a product to a quotation template, click :guilabel:`Add a product` in the :guilabel:`Lines`
tab of a quotation template form. Doing so reveals a blank field in the :guilabel:`Product` column.

When clicked, a drop-down menu with existing products in the database appears. Select the desired
product from the drop-down menu to add it to the quotation template.

If the desired product is not readily visible, type the name of the desired product in the
:guilabel:`Product` field, and the option appears in the drop-down menu. Products can also be found
by clicking :guilabel:`Search More...` from the drop-down menu.

.. tip::
   It is possible to add event-related products (booths and registrations) to quotation templates.
   To do so, click the :guilabel:`Product` field, type in `Event`, and select the desired
   event-related product from the resulting drop-down menu.

.. note::
   When a product is added to a quotation template, the default :guilabel:`Quantity` is `1`, but
   that can be edited at any time.

Then, drag and drop the product to the desired position, via the :guilabel:`six squares` icon,
located to the left of each line item.

To add a *section*, which serves as a header to organize the lines of a sales order, click
:guilabel:`Add a section` in the :guilabel:`Lines` tab. When clicked, a blank field appears, in
which the desired name of the section can be typed. When the name has been entered, click away to
secure the section name.

Then, drag and drop the section name to the desired position, via the :icon:`oi-apps`
:guilabel:`(six squares)` icon, located to the left of each line item.

To add a note, which appears as a piece of text for the customer on the quotation, click
:guilabel:`Add a note` in the :guilabel:`Lines` tab. When clicked, a blank field appears, in which
the desired note can be typed. When the note has been entered, click away to secure the note.

Then, drag and drop the note to the desired position, via the :icon:`oi-apps`
:guilabel:`(six squares)` icon.

To delete any line item from the :guilabel:`Lines` tab (product, section, and/or note), click the
:icon:`fa-trash` :guilabel:`(remove record)` icon on the far-right side of the line.

Optional Products tab
---------------------

Using *optional products* is a marketing strategy that involves the cross-selling of products along
with a core product. The aim is to offer useful and related products to customers, which may result
in an increased sale.

.. example::
   If a customer wants to buy a car, they have the choice to order massaging seats as
   an additional product that compliments the car, or ignore the offer and buy the car alone.

Optional products appear as a section on the bottom of sales orders and eCommerce pages. Customers
can immediately add them to their online sales orders themselves, if desired.

.. image:: quote_template/optional-products-on-sales-order.png
   :alt: Optional products appearing on a typical sales order with Odoo Sales.

In the :guilabel:`Optional Products` tab, :guilabel:`Add a line` for each cross-selling product
related to the original items in the :guilabel:`Lines` tab, if applicable.

Clicking :guilabel:`Add a line` reveals a blank field in the :guilabel:`Product` column.

When clicked, a drop-down menu with products from the database appear. Select the desired product
from the drop-down menu to add it as an optional product to the quotation template.

To delete any line item from the :guilabel:`Optional Products` tab, click the :icon:`fa-trash`
:guilabel:`(remove record)` icon.

.. note::
   Optional products are **not** required to create a quotation template.

Terms & Conditions tab
----------------------

The :guilabel:`Terms & Conditions` tab provides the opportunity to add terms and conditions to the
quotation template. To add terms and conditions, type the desired terms and conditions in this tab.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`../../../finance/accounting/customer_invoices/terms_conditions`

.. note::
   Terms and conditions are **not** required to create a quotation template.

Use quotation templates
=======================

When creating a quotation (:menuselection:`Sales app --> New`), choose a preconfigured template in
the :guilabel:`Quotation Template` field.

.. note::
   The order of the templates in the :guilabel:`Quotation Template` field is determined by the order
   of the templates in the Quotation Templates form. The order of the quotations in the Quotation
   Templates form does **not** affect anything else.

To view what the customer will see, click the :guilabel:`Preview` button at the top of the page to
see how the quotation template appears on the front-end of the website through Odoo's customer
portal.

.. image:: quote_template/quotations-templates-preview.png
   :alt: Customer preview of a quotation template in Odoo Sales.

When all blocks and customizations are complete, click the :guilabel:`Save` button to save the
configuration.

The blue banner located at the top of the quotation template preview can be used to quickly return
:icon:`fa-arrow-right` :guilabel:`Back to edit mode`. When clicked, Odoo returns to the quotation
form in the back-end of the *Sales* application.

Mass cancel quotations/sales orders
===================================

Cancel multiple quotations (or sales orders) by navigating to the :menuselection:`Sales app -->
Orders --> Quotations` dashboard, landing, by default, in the list view. Then, on the left side of
the table, tick the checkboxes for the quotations to be canceled.

.. tip::
   Select all records in the table by selecting the checkbox column header at the top-left of the
   table; the total number of selected items are displayed at the top of the page.

Then, with the desired quotations (or sales orders) selected from the list view on the
:guilabel:`Quotations` page, click the :icon:`fa-cog` :guilabel:`Actions` button to reveal a
drop-down menu.

From this drop-down menu, select :guilabel:`Cancel quotations`.

.. image:: quote_template/cancel-quotations.png
   :alt: The Cancel quotations option on the Actions drop-down menu in the Odoo Sales application.

.. note::
   This action can be performed for quotations in *any* stage, even if it is confirmed as a sales
   order.

Upon selecting the :guilabel:`Cancel quotations` option, a :guilabel:`Cancel quotations`
confirmation pop-up window appears. To complete the cancellation, click the :guilabel:`Cancel
quotations` button.

.. note::
   An error pop-up message appears when attempting to cancel an order for an ongoing subscription
   that has an invoice.

.. seealso::
   - :doc:`get_signature_to_validate`
   - :doc:`get_paid_to_validate`
