=====================================
Removal strategies (FIFO, LIFO, FEFO)
=====================================

For companies with warehouses, **removal strategies** determine which products are taken from the
warehouse, and when. Removal strategies are typically defined for specific picking operations. This
helps companies to select the best products, optimize the distance workers need to travel when
picking items for orders, and account for quality control, such as moving products with expiration
dates.

Usually, *Removal Strategies* are defined in picking operations to select the best products to
optimize the distance for the worker, for quality control purposes, or to first move the products
with the closest expiration date.

When a product needs to be moved, Odoo finds available products that can be assigned to the
transfer. The way Odoo assigns these products depends on the :guilabel:`Removal Strategy` defined in
either the :guilabel:`Product Category` or the :guilabel:`Location` dashboards.

To change the :guilabel:`Removal Strategy`, go to :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration
--> Locations` or :menuselection:`Product Categories`. Click on a :guilabel:`Location` or
:guilabel:`Product Category`, and then click :guilabel:`Edit`. Change the product category
:guilabel:`Force Removal Strategy` or the location :guilabel:`Removal Strategy` by clicking on the
drop-down menu and selecting the desired removal strategy. After selecting the new removal strategy,
click :guilabel:`Save`.

.. image:: removal/product-category-location.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Change the Force Removal Strategy for either the Product Categories or Locations.

What happens inside the warehouse?
==================================

Most warehouses share the same important areas: receiving docks and sorting areas, storage
locations, picking and packing areas, and shipping/loading docks. While all products entering or
leaving the warehouse might go through each of these locations at some point, removal strategies can
have an effect on which products are taken, from where, and when.

In this example below, vendor trucks unload pallets of goods at the receiving docks. Then, operators
scan the products in the receiving area, with the reception date and expiration date. After that,
products are stored in their respective storage locations.

.. note::
   Not all products have expiration dates, but in this example, expiration dates apply.

.. image:: removal/entering-stocks.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Products entering stock via the receiving area.

In Odoo, receive products by navigating to the :menuselection:`Inventory` application, and in the
kanban view, click on either the :guilabel:`Receipts` heading or :guilabel:`# TO PROCESS` button.
On the :guilabel:`Receipts` dashboard, find and click on the individual receipt which will open the
warehouse intake form. Click :guilabel:`Edit`, and then enter the received quantity in the
:guilabel:`Done` column. To finish, :guilabel:`Validate` to receive the products and register them
in the Odoo database.

.. tip::
   Receiving products can also be done within the Odoo *Barcode* application. If using the
   *Barcode* app, scan the product(s), update the quantity, and finally, click :guilabel:`Validate`.
   After products are received in Odoo, the products can then be moved to their respective storage
   locations.

Continuing with the same example, below, imagine several sales orders are made for the products
received earlier, that use expiration dates. In this example, the products weren't received on the
same day, and they don't have the same expiration date. In this situation, logically, sending
products with the closest expiration date is preferred, instead of products received first or last.
Using the chosen removal strategy configured for those products (in this example, :ref:`FEFO
<routes/FEFO>`), Odoo generates a transfer for the products with the soonest expiration date to the
picking area, then the packing area, and finally, to the shipping docks for delivery to the
customer.

.. image:: removal/packing-products.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Products being packed at the packing area for delivery, taking the expiration dates into
         account.

.. note::
   To pick for delivery, the product's lot/serial number can be found on the transfer form. To learn
   more about picking and shipping, refer to either the :ref:`Two-step delivery
   <inventory/receipts_delivery_two_steps>` or :ref:`Three-step delivery
   <inventory/delivery_three_steps>` documentation.

How each removal strategy works
===============================

Removal strategies determine which products are taken from the warehouse when orders are confirmed.

First In, First Out (FIFO)
--------------------------

When using a :guilabel:`First In, First Out (FIFO)` strategy, demand for a product triggers a
removal rule, which requests a transfer for the lot/serial number that entered the stock first (and
therefore, has been in stock for the longest time).

For example, imagine there are three lots of nails in the warehouse, and have the corresponding lot
numbers: `00001`, `00002`, `00003`. Each lot has five boxes of nails in it.

Lot `00001` entered the stock on May 23, lot `00002` on May 25, and lot `00003` on June 1. A
customer orders six boxes on June 11.

Using the :abbr:`FIFO (First In, First Out)` removal strategy, a transfer request will pick the five
boxes from lot `00001` first, and then from the boxes in lot `00002`, since lot `00001` entered the
stock first. The box from lot `00002` is taken next because it has the oldest receipt date after lot
`00001`.

.. image:: removal/fifo-nails-picking.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The detailed operations for the transfer shows the nail lots to be removed.

Last In, First Out (LIFO)
-------------------------

Similar to the :abbr:`FIFO (First In, First Out)` method, the :guilabel:`Last In, First Out (LIFO)`
removal strategy moves products based on the date they entered a warehouse's stock. Instead of
removing the oldest stock on-hand, however, it targets the **newest** stock on-hand for removal.

Every time an order for products with the :abbr:`LIFO (Last In, First Out)` method is placed, a
transfer is created for the lot/serial number that has most recently entered the stock (the **last**
lot/serial number that entered the warehouse's inventory).

.. warning::
   In many countries, the :abbr:`LIFO (Last In, First Out)` removal strategy in banned, since it can
   potentially result in old, expired, or obsolete products being delivered to customers.

For example, imagine there are three lots of boxes of screws in the warehouse, and have the
corresponding lot numbers: `10001`, `10002`, and `10003`, each with 10 boxes of screws per lot.

Lot `10001` entered the stock on June 1, lot `10002` on June 3, and lot `10003` on June 6. A
customer orders seven boxes on June 8.

Using the :abbr:`LIFO (Last In, First Out)` removal strategy, a transfer is requested for seven
boxes of screws from lot `10003` because that lot is the last one to have entered the stock.

.. image:: removal/lifo-nails.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The detailed operations shows which lots are being selected for the picking.

First Expired, First Out (FEFO)
-------------------------------

While the :abbr:`FIFO (First In, First Out)` and :abbr:`LIFO (Last In, First Out)` methods target
products for removal based on date of entry into the warehouse, the :guilabel:`First Expired, First
Out (FEFO)` method targets products for removal based on their assigned expiration dates.

Using the :abbr:`FEFO (First Expired, First Out)` removal strategy, every sales order that includes
products with this removal strategy assigned ensures that transfers are requested for products with
the expiration date soonest to the order date.

As an example, imagine there are three lots of six-egg boxes. Those three lots have the following
lot numbers: `20001`, `20002`, and `20003`, each with five boxes in it.

Lot `20001` entered the stock on July 1 and expires on July 15, lot `20002` entered on July 2 and
expires on July 14, and lot `20003` entered on July 3 and expires on July 21. A customer orders six
boxes on July 5.

Using the :abbr:`FEFO (First Expired, First Out)` method, a transfer is requested for the five boxes
from lot `20002` and one from lot `20001`. All the boxes in lot `20002` are transferred because they
have the earliest expiration date. The transfer also requests one box from lot `20001` because it
has the next closest expiration date after lot `20002`.

.. image:: removal/egg-lots-removal.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The detailed operations for the transfer shows the lots to be removed.

Using removal strategies
========================

To differentiate some units of products from others, the units need to be tracked, either by
:guilabel:`Lot` or by :guilabel:`Serial Number`. To do so, go to :menuselection:`Inventory -->
Configuration --> Settings`. Then, activate the :guilabel:`Storage Locations`, :guilabel:`Multi-Step
Routes`, and :guilabel:`Lots & Serial Numbers` settings. Click :guilabel:`Save` to save changes.

.. image:: removal/traceability.png
   :align: center
   :alt: :alt: Traceability settings.

.. image:: removal/warehouse-settings.png
   :align: center
   :alt: :alt: Warehouse settings.

.. note::
   To use the :abbr:`FEFO (First Expired, First Out)` removal strategy, the :guilabel:`Expiration
   Dates` setting needs to be activated as well. To enable this, go to :menuselection:`Inventory app
   --> Configuration --> Settings`, scroll down to the :guilabel:`Traceability` section, and click
   the checkbox next to :guilabel:`Expiration Dates`. Remember to click :guilabel:`Save` to save all
   changes.

Now, specific removal strategies can be defined on product categories. To do this, go to
:menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration --> Product Categories`, and choose a product
category to define the removal strategy on. In the :guilabel:`Force Removal Strategy` field, choose
a removal strategy.

The *First Expired, First Out* (FEFO) strategy is a bit different from the other two removal
strategies. For :abbr:`FEFO (First Expired, First Out)`, the expiration date is important, not the
date the product entered the stock.

For example, imagine there are three lots of six-egg boxes (in this specific case, don't forget to
use :doc:`units of measure
</applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/product_management/product_replenishment/uom>`). Those
three lots have the following numbers: :guilabel:`20001`, :guilabel:`20002`, and :guilabel:`20003`,
each with five boxes in it.

:guilabel:`20001` entered the stock on the 1st of July and expires on the 15th of July,
:guilabel:`20002` entered on the 2nd and expires on the 14th of July, and :guilabel:`20003` entered
on the 4th and expires on the 21st of July. A customer orders six boxes on the 5th of July. With
the :abbr:`FEFO (First Expired, First Out)` strategy selected, a transfer is requested for the five
boxes of :guilabel:`20002` and one from :guilabel:`20001`. The transfer for all the boxes in lot
:guilabel:`20002` is because they have the closest expiration date. The transfer also requests one
box from :guilabel:`20001` because has the next closest expiration date after lot
:guilabel:`20002`.

Basically, for every sales order of a product with the :abbr:`FEFO (First Expired, First Out)`
strategy, a transfer is requested for the product that has the nearest expiration date from the
order date.

Closest Location
----------------

The *Closest Location* strategy is completely different from the other removal strategies. It is
not related to the date of entry in the warehouse, but rather the location of the product. It is
commonly used for products that do not deteriorate with time.

The aim is to avoid making the warehouse worker take a long journey to the bottom of the stock when
the product is also located at a near location. This method is only available if the
:guilabel:`Storage Locations` setting is on. The closest location is actually the one that comes
first in the alphabetic order.

Use removal strategies
======================

To differentiate some units from others, the units need to be tracked, either by *lot* or by
*serial number*. To do so, go to :menuselection:`Inventory --> Configuration --> Settings`. Then,
activate the :guilabel:`Storage Location`, :guilabel:`Multi-Step Routes`, and :guilabel:`Lots &
Serial Numbers` settings.

.. image:: removal/enabled-features.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Removal strategy on a product category.

To view all products with lots/serial numbers assigned to them, navigate to
:menuselection:`Inventory app --> Products --> Lots/Serial Numbers`. This reveals a page with
drop-down menus of all products assigned lots or serial numbers, filtered by *product* by default.
To change the category these products are filtered by, click :guilabel:`Product` (in the search bar,
in the top right of the page) to remove the default filter, and select a new filter if desired.

.. image:: removal/lot-serial.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Click on Products, then Lots/Serial Numbers to display all the products with lots or serial
         numbers.

To view the serial numbers being selected for a sales order, go to the :guilabel:`Sales app` and
select the sales order in question. In the sales order, click the :guilabel:`Delivery` smart button
in the top right. In the :guilabel:`Operations` tab, click the :guilabel:`⦙≣ (Detailed Operations)`
icon in the far right for the product in question. The :guilabel:`Detailed Operations` window
appears, and displays the lot or serial numbers selected for that specific product for the delivery
order.

FIFO (First In, First Out)
--------------------------

The :abbr:`FIFO (First In, First Out)` removal strategy implies that products which enter a
warehouse's stock first are removed first. Companies should use this method if they are selling
products with short demand cycles, such as clothes, to ensure they are not stuck with outdated
styles in stock.

In this example, there are three lots of white shirts. The shirts are from the *All/Clothes*
category, where *FIFO* is set as the removal strategy. In the :guilabel:`Inventory Valuation
Report`, the three different receipts are listed with the amounts.

.. image:: removal/inventory-valuation.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of the lots of white shirts in the inventory valuation report.

Lot `000001` contains five shirts, lot `000002` contains three shirts, and lot `000003` contains two
shirts.

To see the removal strategy in action, go to the :menuselection:`Sales app` and click
:guilabel:`Create` to create a sales order. Next, select a :guilabel:`Customer` from the drop-down
menu. Then click :guilabel:`Add a product` in the :guilabel:`Order Lines` tab. Select a product (for
this example, the :guilabel:`White Shirt`) from the drop-down menu, or type in the name of the
product in the field. Enter a quantity (for this example, `6.00`) in the :guilabel:`Quantity` field,
then click :guilabel:`Save`, then click :guilabel:`Confirm`.

Once the sales order is confirmed, the delivery order will be created and linked to the picking, and
the oldest lot numbers will be reserved thanks to the :abbr:`FIFO (First In, First Out)` strategy.
All five shirts from lot `000001` and one shirt from lot `000002` will be selected to be sent to the
customer.

.. image:: removal/reserved-lots-fifo-strategy.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Two lots being reserved for a sales order with the FIFO strategy.

LIFO (Last In, First Out)
-------------------------

The :abbr:`LIFO (Last In, First Out)` removal strategy works in the **opposite** manner from the
:abbr:`FIFO (First In, First Out)` strategy. With this method, the products that are received
**last** are moved out first. This method is mostly used for products without a shelf life, and no
time-sensitive factors, such as expiration dates.

In this example, there are three lots of cinder blocks. The blocks are from the *All/Building
Materials* category, where *FIFO* is set as the removal strategy. In the :guilabel:`Inventory
Valuation Report`, the three different receipts are listed with the amounts.

.. image:: removal/inventory-valuation-bricks.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of the lots of cinder blocks in the inventory valuation report.

Lot `000020` contains three cinder blocks, lot `000030` contains five cinder blocks, and lot
`0000400` contains four cinder blocks.

To see how the :abbr:`LIFO (Last In, First Out)` strategy works, first navigate to
:menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration --> Product Categories`, and select a product
category (for this example, the :guilabel:`All/Building Materials` category) to edit. This reveals a
product category form.

Once on the product category form, under the :guilabel:`Logistics` section, change the
:guilabel:`Force Removal Strategy` to :guilabel:`Last In First Out (LIFO)`.

.. image:: removal/last-in-first-out.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Last in first out (LIFO) strategy set up as forced removal strategy.

To see the removal strategy in action, go to the :menuselection:`Sales app` and click
:guilabel:`Create` to create a sales order. Next, select a :guilabel:`Customer` from the drop-down
menu. Then click :guilabel:`Add a product` in the :guilabel:`Order Lines` tab. Select a product (for
this example, the :guilabel:`Cinder Block`) from the drop-down menu, or type in the name of the
product in the field. Enter a quantity (for this example, `5.00`) in the :guilabel:`Quantity` field,
then click :guilabel:`Save`, then click :guilabel:`Confirm`.

Once the sales order is confirmed, the delivery order will be created and linked to the picking, and
the newest lot numbers will be reserved thanks to the :abbr:`LIFO (Last In, First Out)` strategy.
All four cinder blocks from lot `0000400` and one cinder block from lot `000030` will be selected to
be sent to the customer.

.. image:: removal/reserved-lots-lifo-strategy.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Two lots being reserved for sale with the LIFO strategy.

.. _routes/FEFO:

FEFO (First Expired, First Out)
-------------------------------

The :abbr:`FEFO (First Expired, First Out)` removal strategy differs from the :abbr:`FIFO (First In,
First Out)` and :abbr:`LIFO (Last In, First Out)` strategies, because it targets products for
removal based on **expiration dates** instead of their warehouse receipt dates. With this method,
the products that are going to expire first are moved out first. This method is used for perishable
products, such as medicine, food, and beauty products.

Lots are picked based on their **removal date** from earliest to latest. Removal dates indicate how
many days *before* the expiration date the product needs to be removed from stock. The removal date
is set on the product form. Lots without a removal date defined are picked after lots with removal
dates.

.. warning::
   If products are not removed from stock when they should be, lots that are past the expiration
   date may still be picked for delivery orders!

.. note::
   For more information about expiration dates, reference the :doc:`Expiration dates
   <../../product_management/product_tracking/expiration_dates>` document.

First, go to :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration --> Settings` and ensure
:guilabel:`Expiration Dates` is enabled. Once the :guilabel:`Expiration Dates` setting is enabled,
it's possible to define different expiration dates for individual serialized products, as well as
for lot numbers containing many products.

In this example, there are three lots of hand cream. The creams are from the *All/Health & Beauty*
category, where *FEFO* is set as the removal strategy. In the :guilabel:`Inventory Valuation
Report`, the three different receipts are listed with the amounts.

Lot `0000001` contains twenty tubes of hand cream, expiring on Sept 30, lot `0000002` contains ten
tubes of hand cream, expiring on November 30, and lot `0000003` contains ten tubes of hand cream,
expiring on October 31.

.. image:: removal/hand-cream-lots.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View the hand cream lot numbers and expiration dates in the inventory report.

Expiration dates can be entered when validating the received products, or set on products by going
to :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Products --> Lots/Serial Numbers`. Click :guilabel:`Create`,
enter the serial number, and select the product from the drop-down menu. Next, select the expiration
date in the :guilabel:`Dates` tab. Finally, click :guilabel:`Save`.

.. image:: removal/removal-date.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of the removal date for 0000001.

To see how the :abbr:`FEFO (First Expired, First Out)` strategy works, first navigate to
:menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration --> Product Categories`, and select a product
category (in this example, the :guilabel:`All/Health & Beauty` category) to edit. This reveals a
product category form.

Once on the product category form, under the :guilabel:`Logistics` section, change the
:guilabel:`Force Removal Strategy` to :abbr:`FEFO (First Expired, First Out)`.

.. image:: removal/fefo.png
   :align: center
   :alt: FEFO forced removal strategy set on the product category.

Next, go to the :menuselection:`Sales app` and click :guilabel:`Create` to create a sales order.
Next, select a :guilabel:`Customer` from the drop-down menu. Then click :guilabel:`Add a product` in
the :guilabel:`Order Lines` tab. Select a product (for this example, the :guilabel:`Hand Cream`)
from the drop-down menu, or type in the name of the product in the field. Enter a quantity (in this
example, `25.00`) in the :guilabel:`Quantity` field, then click :guilabel:`Save`, then click
:guilabel:`Confirm`.

Once the sales order is confirmed, the delivery order will be created and linked to the picking, and
the lot numbers expiring first will be reserved thanks to the :abbr:`FEFO (First Expired, First
Out)` strategy. All twenty tubes of hand cream from lot `0000001` and five from lot `0000003` will
be selected to be sent to the customer, detailed in the :guilabel:`Detailed Operations` tab in the
sales order.

.. image:: removal/pick-hand-cream.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Hand cream lot numbers selected for the sales order.
