===============
Connect a scale
===============

A scale can be connected to the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box on an Odoo database in a few
easy steps. After setup, the *Point of Sale* app can be used to weigh products, which is helpful if
their prices are calculated based on weight.

.. important::
   - In EU member states, `certification is legally required <https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=uriserv%3AOJ.L_.2014.096.01.0107.01.ENG>`_
     to use a scale as an integrated device.
   - Odoo is not certified in several countries, including France, Germany, and Switzerland. If you
     reside in one of these countries, you can still use a scale but without integration to your
     Odoo database.
   - Alternatively, you have the option to acquire a *non-integrated* certified scale that prints
     certified labels, which can then be scanned into your Odoo database.

.. seealso::
   `Directive 2014/31/EU of the European Parliament <https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=uriserv%3AOJ.L_.2014.096.01.0107.01.ENG>`_

Connection
==========

To link the scale to the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box, connect it with a :abbr:`USB
(Universal Serial Bus)` cable.

.. note::
   In some cases, a serial port to :abbr:`USB (Universal Serial Bus)` adapter may be needed.

If the scale is `compatible with Odoo IoT Box <https://www.odoo.com/page/iot-hardware>`_, there is
no need to set up anything because it will be automatically detected as soon as it is connected.

.. image:: scale/iot-choice.png
   :align: center
   :alt: IOT box auto detection.

The :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box may need to be restarted and the scale's drivers may need
to be downloaded to the box in some cases. To update the drivers, go to the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of
Things)` box homepage and click on :guilabel:`Drivers List`. Then, click on :guilabel:`Load
Drivers`.

.. image:: scale/driver-list.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of the IoT box settings and driver list.

If loading the drivers still doesn't allow for the scale to function, it may be that the scale is
not compatible with the Odoo :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box. In this case, a different scale
will need to be used.

Use a scale in a point of sale (POS) system
===========================================

To use the scale in the *Point of Sale app*, go to :menuselection:`PoS app --> 3-Dot Menu on the PoS
--> Settings`, then enable the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box feature. After this is complete,
the scale device can be set.

Select the scale from the :guilabel:`Electronic Scale` drop-down menu. Then click :guilabel:`Save`
to save the changes, if required.

.. image:: scale/electronic-scale-feature.png
   :align: center
   :alt: List of the external tools that can be used with PoS and the IoT box.

The scale is now available in all the :abbr:`PoS (Point of Sale)` sessions. Now, if a product has a
price per weight set, clicking on it on the :guilabel:`PoS` screen opens the scale screen, where the
cashier can weigh the product and add the correct price to the cart.

.. image:: scale/scale-view.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Electronic Scale dashboard view when no items are being weighed.

Troubleshooting
===============

Set up Ariva S scales
---------------------

Odoo has determined that a specific setting in Ariva S series scales (manufactured by
Mettler-Toledo, LLC.) needs modification, and a dedicated Mettler :abbr:`USB (Universal Serial
Bus)`-to-proprietary RJ45 cable is required for the scale to function with Odoo's :abbr:`IoT
(Internet of Things)` box.

To correctly configure the scale for recognition by the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box, follow
this setup process for the Ariva S series scales.

.. important::
   It is crucial to use the official Mettler :abbr:`USB (Universal Serial Bus)`-to-RJ45 cable during
   this process.

Cable
~~~~~

The Mettler part number is 72256236 - :abbr:`USB (Universal Serial Bus)`-to-:abbr:`POS (Point of
Sale)` cable. Contact Mettler, or a partner, to purchase an authentic cable. Note that **no other**
cable outside of this Mettler cable works for this configuration. Using a serial-only cable attached
to a serial-to-:abbr:`USB (Universal Serial Bus)` adapter is **not** effective.

.. image:: troubleshooting/cable-mettler.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Authentic Mettler USB to POS cable, part number 72256236.

Setup
~~~~~

Refer to Mettler's Setup Guide for Ariva S series scales during the following configuration: `Ariva
Checkout Scale User's Guide <https://www.mt.com/dam/RET_DOCS/Ariv.pdf>`_.

To begin, go to page 17 in the above manual for *Setup*. This guide lists potential settings for the
Ariva S series scales.

Follow the instructions, along with the following process, to set the scale to setup mode. First,
hold the **>T<** button for eight seconds, or until :guilabel:`CONF` appears.

Next, press **>T<** until :guilabel:`GRP 3` appears, then press **>0<** to confirm.

Under :guilabel:`3.1`, ensure the setting is set to :guilabel:`1` (USB Virtual COM ports). Press
**>T<** to cycle through the options under group 3.1.

Once :guilabel:`3.1` is set to :guilabel:`1`, press **>0<** to confirm the selection. Continue to
press **>0<** until :guilabel:`GRP 4` appears.

Now, press **>T<** until :guilabel:`EXIT` appears.

.. important::
   Do **not** make any other changes unless otherwise needed.

Once :guilabel:`EXIT` appears, press **>0<**. Following this, press **>0<** again to
:guilabel:`SAVE`. Now the scale restarts.

Finally, restart the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box to recognize the changes made on the
scale's configuration. After restarting, the scale appears as `Toledo 8217`, as opposed to the
previous display, where it appeared as `Adam Equipment Serial`.

