:show-content:

======
Orders
======

The **Lunch** app lets employees place lunch orders, see what's available each day, and check their
account balance, all from one place.

When the **Lunch** application is opened, the :guilabel:`Order Your Lunch` dashboard loads. This
view is also accessible by navigating to :menuselection:`Lunch app --> My Lunch --> New Order`.

The :guilabel:`Order Your Lunch` dashboard provides a summary of lunch offerings, the user's account
information, and the current day's orders, along with their statuses.

Order Your Lunch
================

On the main :guilabel:`Order Your Lunch` dashboard, all the necessary information needed to place an
order is visible. Enable the :guilabel:`Available Today` filter in the search bar by clicking into
the search bar and selecting :guilabel:`Available Today`. This filter shows only products that can
be purchased that day, based on the :ref:`vendor's availability <lunch/availability>`.

The left-side of the dashboard displays the various :guilabel:`Categories` of products available,
along with the :guilabel:`Vendors` supplying the products. To the right of each line is a number,
which indicates how many products are associated with that respective category or vendor.

To filter the products by categories or vendors, tick the checkbox next to the desired category or
vendor to only view items related to those selections. Multiple selections can be made in each
section.

.. note::
   If multiple selections are made, **only** products that fall under **all** the selected options
   are shown.

The top portion of the dashboard, which serves as an order summary, displays the user's account
information, and the order details for today, if any orders have been placed.

The main section, beneath the user's information, displays all the products in a default Kanban
view. Each product card displays the name, cost, vendor, photo, and description of the product. If
the product is configured as new, it also displays a :guilabel:`New` tag.

.. image:: orders/dashboard.png
   :alt: The Lunch app dashboard.

.. note::
   Anywhere a vendor's name is listed in the **Lunch** app, such as on Kanban product cards, their
   phone number is listed, as well.

The products can also be displayed in a list view, by clicking the :icon:`oi-view-list`
:guilabel:`(List)` icon in the top-right corner of the dashboard.

Placing orders
==============

To place a lunch order, navigate to the main :guilabel:`Order Your Lunch` dashboard, by either
opening the **Lunch** app, or by navigating to :menuselection:`Lunch app --> My Lunch --> New
Order`.

Add products to an order
------------------------

From the :guilabel:`Order Your Lunch` dashboard, click on a desired product to add to an order, and
the product appears in a :guilabel:`Configure Your Order` pop-up window.

At the top of the pop-up window is the product image, name, and price. Beneath that, there are
potential :guilabel:`Extras` fields, showcasing any :ref:`extra items or options <lunch/extras>`,
such as toppings or drinks. Tick the checkbox next to any desired extras present in the
:guilabel:`Extras` fields to add them to the order.

Each extra option is organized by a category, complete with its name and price. As extras are
selected, the displayed price at the top of the pop-up window updates to reflect all current
selections.

Beneath the :guilabel:`Extras` field is the :guilabel:`Description` of the product, followed by a
:guilabel:`Notes` field. The :guilabel:`Notes` field is used to enter any vital information, which
is then sent to the vendor regarding the order, such as any special requests or food allergies.

When all selections for the product have been made, click the :guilabel:`Add To Cart` button in the
lower-left of the pop-up window. To cancel the order, click the :guilabel:`Discard` button.

.. image:: orders/pizza.png
   :alt: The pop-up window for a personal pizza, with all the extras selected.

Errors
~~~~~~

Depending on how the various :ref:`extras <lunch/configure-extras>` are configured for a vendor, it
is possible to receive an error when attempting to add products to the cart.

An error can occur when a configured product **requires** the user to select an option in the
:guilabel:`Extras` field, but the user neglects to make one.

When this occurs, a :guilabel:`Validation Error` pop-up window appears. The error is briefly
explained in the pop-up window. Click :guilabel:`Close` to close the window, and make any necessary
changes to the :guilabel:`Configure Your Order` pop-up window.

.. example::
   The vendor, The Pizza Palace, provides a free beverage with any purchase. Their products are
   configured so that a beverage selection is **required** in the :guilabel:`Extras` field *before*
   adding one of their products to the cart.

   If a selection is **not** made, an error occurs. The message that appears is `You have to order
   one and only one Free Beverage with Purchase`.

   .. image:: orders/error.png
      :alt: The :guilabel:`Validation Error` pop-up window with the specific error for the free
            beverage displayed.

Your Order summary
------------------

When at least one item is added to an order, the items appear at the top of the dashboard in the
:guilabel:`Your Order` summary. In addition to the products, users can view the account information,
in addition to all the information related to orders placed during the current calendar day.

As products are added to an order, they appear at the top center of the summary box. Each product is
listed beneath the words :guilabel:`Your Order`, with the product name, quantity, and a status tag.

The available tags that can be displayed for each item are:

- :guilabel:`To Order`: the product has been added to the cart, but has not been purchased yet by
  the user.
- :guilabel:`Ordered`: the product has been purchased by the user, and is waiting to be sent to the
  vendor by a **Lunch** app manager.
- :guilabel:`Sent`: the order for the product has been sent to the vendor by a **Lunch** app
  manager.
- :guilabel:`Received`: the product has been delivered by the vendor to the user's location, and has
  been verified as received by a **Lunch** app manager.

Product quantities can be adjusted by clicking the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`(plus)` or
:icon:`fa-minus` :guilabel:`(minus)` icons to the left of the listed product. The product price
adjusts in real-time to display the cost for the currently selected quantity of the product.

The right side of the :guilabel:`Your Order` summary displays the purchasing information. The
:guilabel:`Total` amount for the entire day's lunch order is displayed. The :guilabel:`Already Paid`
field indicates how much has been paid that day towards the :guilabel:`Total` amount. The
:guilabel:`To Pay` field displays how much of the remaining :guilabel:`Total` amount must be paid,
in order to place the currently configured order.

.. image:: orders/your-order.png
   :alt: The 'Your Orders' section of the dashboard, with purchasing information.

.. tip::
   Users can place multiple orders throughout the day, and are not restricted to only placing one
   lunch order each day. Multiple orders might need to be placed, due to users forgetting to add
   items to an order, or if there are multiple meals that are available to be purchased for the
   office (not only lunch), and so on.

   Depending on the various vendors, and how the vendors and products are configured, it is possible
   to order breakfast, lunch, dinner, coffee, and/or snacks.

Submit an order
---------------

To place the order, click the :guilabel:`Order Now` button on the right-side of the :guilabel:`Your
Order` summary. The user is charged the amount that is displayed in the :guilabel:`To Pay` field,
and the cost is deducted from their **Lunch** account balance.

Once the order is placed, the tags for the purchased items in the :guilabel:`Your Order` field
change from orange :guilabel:`To Order` tags to red :guilabel:`Ordered` tags.

Track an order
--------------

When orders have been sent to the vendors, the tags for the items in the :guilabel:`Your Order`
summary change from red :guilabel:`Ordered` tags to blue :guilabel:`Sent` tags.

Once orders have been received and verified, the tags change from blue :guilabel:`Sent` tags to
green :guilabel:`Received` tags.

Receive an order
----------------

When orders are received at the delivery location, they are confirmed by a **Lunch** app manager,
and a notification is sent to the employee who ordered the food.

My Orders
=========

To view a full list of all orders placed in the **Lunch** app for the currently signed-in user,
navigate to :menuselection:`Lunch app --> My Lunch --> My Order History`. This navigates to the
:guilabel:`My Orders` dashboard. The data is filtered by :guilabel:`My Orders` and grouped by
:guilabel:`Order Date: Day`, by default, both of which are located in the search bar.

All products appear in a list view, organized by date. The list displays the :guilabel:`Order Date`,
:guilabel:`Vendor`, :guilabel:`Product`, :guilabel:`Extras`, :guilabel:`Notes`, :guilabel:`User`,
:guilabel:`Lunch Location`, :guilabel:`Price`, and :guilabel:`Status` information. If in a
multi-company database, a :guilabel:`Company` column also appears.

The total cost for each order is displayed on the line containing the order date. At the bottom of
the list, beneath all the lines, the overall total amount paid for all the orders appears, under the
:guilabel:`Price` column.

At the end of each product line with a status of :guilabel:`Ordered` or :guilabel:`Sent`, an
:guilabel:`X Cancel` button appears. Click :guilabel:`X Cancel` to cancel that product order. Once a
product order has been cancelled, the money paid for that product is refunded, and appears in the
user's account.

At the end of each product line with a status of :guilabel:`Received`, a :guilabel:`Re-order` button
appears. Click :guilabel:`Re-order` to instantly reorder that same product, with the same extras, if
applicable. The new order appears in the list, under the current date, and the product is paid for,
with money deducted from the user's account.

.. image:: orders/my-orders.png
   :alt: The list view that appears when navigating to the My Orders dashboard.

My Account
==========

To view a summary of all transactions in the user's account, navigate to :menuselection:`Lunch app
--> My Lunch --> My Account History`. Doing so reveals the :guilabel:`My Account` dashboard.

The default presentation of the :guilabel:`My Account` dashboard displays all entries, from newest
to oldest. The :guilabel:`Date`, :guilabel:`Description`, and :guilabel:`Amount` are the only fields
displayed in the list.

Entries with a negative figure listed in the :guilabel:`Amount` column represent products purchased
in the **Lunch** app. These appear in a `$-XX.XX` format.

Entries with a positive balance either represent funds added to the user's lunch account, or
cancelled orders that were eventually refunded to the user. These appear in a `$XX.XX` format.

.. image:: orders/my-account.png
   :alt: The 'My Account' dashboard with the entry for adding funds to the user's lunch account.
