=============
Bank payments
=============

.. seealso::
   :doc:`../payment_providers`

.. _payment_providers/bank_payments/wire_transfer:

Wire transfer
=============

The **Wire Transfer** payment method allows you to provide payment instructions to customers,
such as your bank details and a reference to include with the payment. These instructions are
displayed after the customer selects :guilabel:`Wire Transfer` as the payment method and clicks the
:guilabel:`Pay now` button at the end of the checkout process on your ecommerce website or on the
customer portal.

.. note::
   - While this method is widely accessible and requires minimal setup, it is not efficient
     process-wise. It is recommended to set up a :doc:`payment provider <../payment_providers>`
     instead.
   - Online orders remain in the :guilabel:`Quotation sent` (i.e., unpaid order) stage until you
     receive the payment and manually :guilabel:`Confirm` the order.

To configure **Wire Transfer**, follow these steps:

#. :ref:`Navigate to the Wire Transfer payment provider <payment_providers/supported_providers>`.
#. In the :guilabel:`Configuration` tab, select whether the memo or :guilabel:`Communication` to be
   displayed alongside the payment instructions should be:

   - :guilabel:`Based on Document Reference`: the sales order or invoice number
   - :guilabel:`Based on Customer ID`: the customer identifier

#. Enable :guilabel:`Enable QR codes` to activate QR code payments.

   .. note::
      :doc:`Additional accounting setup <../accounting/customer_invoices/epc_qr_code>` is required
      to use QR codes.

#. Define the payment instructions in the :guilabel:`Messages` tab. If :doc:`a bank account
   <../accounting/bank>` has already been defined, the account number is automatically added to the
   default message generated by Odoo. You can also add it afterward and update the message by
   clicking :guilabel:`Reload pending message`.
#. Set the :guilabel:`State` field to :guilabel:`Enabled`.

.. tip::
   The **Wire transfer** payment method can serve as a template for other payment methods that are
   processed manually, such as checks. :ref:`Access the Wire Transfer payment method
   <payment_providers/payment_methods>`, then duplicate it if needed and rename it accordingly.

.. _payment_providers/bank_payments/sdd:

SEPA Direct Debit
=================

.. |sdd| replace:: :abbr:`SDD (SEPA Direct Debit)`

SEPA (Single Euro Payments Area) is a payment-integration initiative of the European Union that
facilitates standardized and simplified electronic payments in euros across participating countries.

SEPA Direct Debit (SDD) is a payment provider that allows future payments to be collected from
customers' bank accounts based on a signed :ref:`SEPA Direct Debit mandate
<accounting/batch_sdd/sdd_mandates>`. This is particularly useful for recurring payments based on a
:doc:`subscription </applications/sales/subscriptions>`.

.. important::
   To use the SEPA Direct Debit (SDD) payment provider and create :ref:`SEPA Direct Debit mandates
   <accounting/batch_sdd/sdd_mandates>`:

   - The invoice being paid must be for an amount in euros.
   - The :guilabel:`SEPA Direct Deposit (SDD)` feature must be enabled, and the company's
     :guilabel:`Creditor Identifier` must be defined in the :ref:`Accounting or Invoicing settings
     <accounting/batch_sdd/sepa-configuration>`.

.. _sdd/configuration:

Configuration
-------------

To configure **SEPA Direct Debit**, follow these steps:

#. :ref:`Navigate to the SEPA Direct Debit payment provider <payment_providers/supported_providers>`.
#. In the :guilabel:`Configuration` tab, select whether the memo or :guilabel:`Communication` to be
   displayed alongside the payment instructions should be:

   - :guilabel:`Based on Document Reference`: the sales order or invoice number
   - :guilabel:`Based on Customer ID`: the customer identifier

#. Select the :guilabel:`Enable QR codes` check box to activate QR code payments.

   .. note::
      :doc:`Additional accounting setup <../accounting/customer_invoices/epc_qr_code>` is required
      to use QR codes.

#. Edit the default payment instructions in the :guilabel:`Messages` tab to include your **bank
   account number**. These instructions are displayed at the end of the checkout process on your
   ecommerce website or on the customer portal.
#. Set the :guilabel:`State` field to :guilabel:`Enabled`.

.. important::
   - Leave the :guilabel:`Currencies` field set to the default :guilabel:`EUR` tag to ensure |sdd|
     is only available for payments in euros.
   - The :guilabel:`Bank Account` defined for the :guilabel:`Payment Journal` must be a valid IBAN.

.. tip::
   You can also test SEPA direct debit payments using the :ref:`payment_providers/test-mode`.

Online payments with |sdd|
--------------------------

Customers selecting |sdd| as a payment method are prompted to enter their IBAN to complete the
:ref:`SEPA Direct Debit mandate <accounting/batch_sdd/sdd_mandates>`.

The |sdd| mandate is then automatically created in :guilabel:`Draft` based on the provided IBAN. To
validate the information, customers must confirm each new mandate with a successful bank transfer of
the expected amount **using the specified payment reference (communication)** defined in the
:ref:`SEPA Direct Debit payment provider's form <sdd/configuration>`. Once this initial payment is
received and :doc:`reconciled <../accounting/bank/reconciliation>`, the mandate is automatically
validated and updated to the :guilabel:`Active` status. Once a mandate is active, it is reused for
all subsequent payments made with the |sdd| payment method. You can then collect them by
:ref:`uploading them to your online banking interface <accounting/batch_sdd/XML>`.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`../accounting/payments/batch_sdd`

.. note::
   - Mandates are automatically :ref:`closed <accounting/batch_sdd/close-revoke-mandate>` 36 months
     after the date of the last collection.
   - |sdd| is also available as a payment method through other providers, such as
     :doc:`adyen`, :doc:`buckaroo`, and :doc:`stripe`. In these cases, |sdd| mandates are handled
     externally by the payment provider.
